include::../header.adoc[]

= RTCHECK(nged)

== NAME

rtcheck - Executes the BRL-CAD rtcheck program with the default
options of "-s50 M".

== SYNOPSIS

*rtcheck* [_options_]

== DESCRIPTION

Executes the BRL-CAD _rtcheck_ program with the default options of
"-s50 M". The -M option tells _rtcheck_ to read the viewing parameters
from standard input so that rays are only fired from the current
view. The current database name and the list of currently displayed
objects are added to the end of the _rtcheck_ command line. The
_rtcheck_ program is written such that options may be repeated, and
the last occurrence of an option will override any earlier
occurrences.  This allows the user to specify other _size (-s)_
options. The [cmd]*rrt* command performs a similar function, but may
be used to execute other programs as well. The _rtcheck_ program uses
raytracing to check for overlapping regions in the list of objects
passed on the command line. When invoked from within MGED, any
discovered overlaps along a ray are represented as yellow lines that
extend only in the areas of overlap. Details and a count of overlaps
are also reported. Note that overlaps of less than 0.1 mm are
currently ignored by _rtcheck_. The default option of _-s50_ indicates
that the checking rays should be fired from a uniform square grid with
50 rays on a side. This is very coarse and may miss significant
overlaps. It is recommended that the user select appropriate options
for the _rtcheck_ program and execute it for a variety viewing aspects
to perform a thorough check. The granularity of the grid may be
controlled with the _-s, -w, -n, -g,_ and _-G_ options. See the _man_
page on _rtcheck_ for details.

== EXAMPLES

The example shows the use of the [cmd]*rtcheck* command to run the
_rtcheck_ program with rays fired from a uniform grid with the rays
spaced every 10 mm.

.Run the _rtcheck_ program to fire rays from a uniform grid with the rays spaced a specified distance apart.
====
[prompt]#mged># [in]`rtcheck -g10 -G10`

Runs the _rtcheck_ program with rays fired from a uniform grid with
the rays spaced every 10 mm.
====

== AUTHOR

BRL-CAD Team

include::../footer.adoc[]
