= Annotations

== Annotations

.Example annot object created with the in command
image::Example_annot.png[]

Annotations are currently created through the "in" command. Support
for the annotation editor is yet to be provided. This primitive allows
users to label models in the wireframe view. The primitive is aimed to
be in the plane of the screen always, irrespective of the
rotations. The annot object shown has the name annot_test. "get" and
"l"(ell) commands give an overview of the structure. The input format
can also be found below.  Note that the second point that is entered
by the user is relative to the first point. (This is done to make it
easier, when the editor comes into place)

 mged> in
 Enter name of solid: annot_test
 Enter solid type: annot
 Enter the point to be annotated: 0
 Enter Y: 0
 Enter Z: 0
 Enter the text label: (0,0,0)
 Enter X,Y for the text placement: 3
 Enter Y: 3
 Enter the relative vertical position(1->bottom, 2->middle, 3->top): 3
 Enter the relative horizontal position(1->right, 2->center, 3->left): 1
 annot_test

Below is the get command

 mged> get annot_test

result:

 annotation
  V {0 0 0}
  VL { {3 3} {0 0} }
  SL { { line S 0 E 1 }
  { label (0,0,0) ref_pt 0 position top right } }

The l command (ell).

....
mged> l annot_test

annot_test:  2D annotations (annotation)
    V = (0 0 0)
    2 vertices
    Vertices:
     0-(3 3) 1-(0 0)

    Ant:
        Line segment (3 3) <-> (0 0)
        Reference point (3 3)
        Relative position: top right

    Label text: (0,0,0)
....

What we currently have is a foundation for the future work. Still,
there are plenty of things to be done that will be accomplished with
time.

== Dimension Line

image::DL.png[]

A dimension line annotation is suggested and not final yet, it is
currently created through the "in" command. This capability is
constructed using the same existing annotation primitive. it allows
users to draw a dimension line between two points in the wireframe
view.  The lines that construct the dimension line is aimed to be in
the model space, and the dimension line text will be always in the
plane of the screen irrespective of the rotations and zooming . "get"
and "l"(ell) commands give an overview about the structure. The input
format can also be found below.

 mged> in
 Enter the name of solid: DL
 Enter solid type: annotDL
 Enter the first point: 20
 Enter Y: 20
 Enter the second point: 30
 Enter Y: 30
 Enter the text size: 3
 Enter the relative vertical position(1->bottom, 2->middle, 3->top): 3
 Enter the relative horizontal position(1->right, 2->center, 3->left): 1
 DL

you can notice the get command in the picture.

What we currently have is a foundation for future work. the rotation
angle of the text is calculated based on the coordinates of the first
and the second points.

== Label Box

image::Boxaround.png[]

One feature of the annotations in the cad programs is having a box
around the annotation text this isn't final, it is work undergoing in
GSoC 2019.

 mged> in
 Enter name of solid: labelbox
 Enter solid type: annot
 Enter the point to be annotated: 0
 Enter Y: 0
 Enter Z: 0
 Enter the text label: box_around_label
 Enter X,Y for the text placement: 20
 Enter Y: 20
 Enter the relative vertical position(1->bottom, 2->middle, 3->top): 1
 Enter the relative horizontal position(1->right, 2->center, 3->left): 1
 Enter label box chois (1->box around the label,0->no box around the label): 1
 labelbox

this feature works also with all the position flags of the annotation.

image::Labelbox.png[]
