= Lighting

BRL-CAD's xref:man:1/rt.adoc[rt] ray tracer automatically provides
light sources if none are defined in a scene being
rendered. Additionally, 30% of the light in a scene goes towards
ambient illumination so that all objects in a scene are visible. The
default lights are automatically provided so that default renderings
show users 'something' rather than nothing.

That said, there are many situations that call for custom lighting
where you want to make an image brighter or darker or where you want
to illuminate a portion of the scene in some particular manner. To do
this in BRL-CAD, you create a combination object that has the 'light'
material property set.

If you render a scene with *any* lights, the default lights will be
disabled. The default ambient lighting will still remain at 30%, and
is a parameter controlled by the *-A* option to
xref:man:1/rt.adoc[rt].

BRL-CAD supports a wide variety of light types including the ability
to represent directional lights, point light sources, colored lights,
area lights, and more. Lights are visible by default but may be marked
invisible for situations where you want to more heavily/specifically
illuminate a portion of a scene without seeing the light object
itself.

== A Simple Example

Consider a simple scene comprised of a box with three colored lights
positioned above the box:

image::Light1.png[Image:Light1.png]

The default ambient illumination allows the entire box to be visible
even though the light sources clearly do not illuminate the sides or
bottom of the box. By default, the 30% of the illumination in a scene
goes towards ambient lighting. If we set the ambient light
contribution to 0% (via *rt -A0*), only the top of the box is
illuminated as we would expect.

image::Light2.png[Image:Light2.png]

To fully control the lighting for a given scene, ambient lighting
should be turned off (via *rt -A0*) or at least set to a low value
(e.g., *rt -A0.1*). Without ambient lighting, more care must be taken
to illuminate a scene. Two common ways to do this are to either add
more lights around the scene or to increase the fraction of
contribution on the lights in the scene. For example, if we consider
our simple scene with ambient lighting disabled and increase the
_fraction_ parameter on all three lights from 1.0 to 2.0, we double
the intensity of the lights.

image::Light3.png[Image:Light3.png]

Crank that fraction up to 10.0 and the lights reflected on the top of
the box really begin to bloom:

image::Light4.png[Image:Light4.png]

Note that there is so much overlap between the lights at that point,
so you see blue for the farthest light, a pinkish magenta color in the
middle where blue and red are cross, and white where all three colors
are overlapping.

== The Phong "Plastic" Shader

Now, at first thought, you may think that the lights are facing
forward but they are in face facing straight downward (with a 180
degree angle).  Or you may ask why the lights aren't evenly blending
together with a white bloom near the center and under the red
light. The reason has to do with the material properties (the shader)
of the box itself. It's using a default _plastic_ shader. That shader
controls how light interacts with the box including how light is
reflected, refracted, absorbed, etc.

BRL-CAD's plastic shader is a basic "Phong" shader and provides
parameters that let you describe objects with a wide variety of
representative optical characteristics. With the right values to the
shader, you can give the appearance for a variety materials including
glass, metals, mirrors, and others in addition to a simple "plastic"
appearance that the default values provide.

Two parameters, specular and diffuse reflectivity, are particularly
important for plastic (a.k.a phong) objects as they control how much
of a light returns back towards the viewer. By default, 70% of light
hitting a phong surface will be _specular_ and biased back towards a
viewer. The remaining 30% of the light is considered _diffuse_ and
reflects less sharply towards the viewer.

image::Phong.png[Image:Phong.png]

== Tweaking the Box

If we move the spherical light sources a little bit closer to the
box's surface, we can emphasize the effects of diffuse and specular
reflectivity:

image::Light5.png[Image:Light5.png]

The default ratio of specular-to-diffuse is 7:3 or 70% going towards
specular and 30% towards diffuse reflectivity. If we balance the two
out, decreasing specular and increasing diffuse reflectivity, the
surface becomes slightly more 'dulled' and with our (high-powered,
high fraction) lights, we see even more overlap and blending of
colors.

image::Light6.png[Image:Light6.png]

Taking that to an extreme with only diffuse reflectivity, the light
hitting the surface becomes very spread out:

image::Light7.png[Image:Light7.png]

Taking it to the opposite extreme with only specular reflectivity,
each light harshly reflects back off the surface and the
"forward-blending" of colors becomes rather apparent:

image::Light8.png[Image:Light8.png]

== Topping it all off

In the simple example scene we are using, if we look at the scene from
directly above the three spheres, specular reflectance is no longer a
concern and we can see that the lights indeed do reflect straight
down.  Here they are seen with a default 1.0 fraction and no ambient
lighting:

image::Light_brg.png[Image:Light_brg.png]

If we increase the light intensity contribution (i.e., its fraction)
by an order of magnitude to 10.0 then the colors begin to overlap
considerably:

image::Light_brg10.png[Image:Light_brg10.png]

Notice in particular the optical illusion of a bright halo around each
light caused by how the three lights are overlapping and how you can
begin to see a combined "white" underneath the red light where all
three are combining. The halo effect is where the light being
reflected from the surface reaches a maximum intensity (255) for that
given component and the contribution of the neighboring colors
continues to increase (which seems darker but is actually brighter).

If the fraction is increased even further still, the center white
becomes even more pronounced and the color overlap becomes
considerable:

image:Light_brg20.png[Image:Light_brg20.png]

