include::../header.adoc[]

= OBJ-G(1)

== NAME

obj-g - Convert a Wavefront Object (obj) file to a BRL-CAD .g
database.

== SYNOPSIS

*obj-g* [-c] [-d] [-f] [-g _grouping_option_] [-H _plate_thickness_] [-i] [-m _mode_] [-o _open_bot_type_] [-p] [-r _bot_orientation_] [-t _distance_tolerance_] [-u _units_str_] [-v]... [-x _rt_debug_flag_] [-X _NMG_debug_flag_] _input.obj_ _output.g_

[[_objg_description]]
== DESCRIPTION

[cmd]*obj-g* converts a Wavefront Object file to BRL-CAD's .g format.

Only face elements are supported. Materials and textures associated
with face elements are unsupported. Faces associated with materials
and/or textures will convert but material properties and textures are
ignored. Face groupings convert to BRL-CAD primitives. Any
hierarchical structure (i.e. assembly structure) defined in the obj
file is not maintained in the conversion. If a face is a member of
more than one 'group' grouping, a copy of the face will exist in each
group in the resulting model. Primitives are named based on the
grouping names and have appended to each name a string which
guarantees uniqueness. This unique string includes the obj file
grouping index number, face type number (1-4), internal conversion
mode (b=native-bot|n=nmg|v=bot-via-nmg) and surface closure status
(o=open|c=closed|u=untested). Characters in the original grouping name
which may cause problems are replaced with the underscore character.

[[_objg_options]]
== OPTIONS

*-c*:: Continue processing on nmg-bomb. If this option is set and an
nmg-bomb occurs (i.e., fatal error during processing nmg or
bot-via-nmg) conversion will fall back to outputting the grouping to
'native-bot' and then continue processing the next grouping. If this
option is not set and an nmg-bomb occurs then all processing will stop
and the converter will exit.

*-d*:: Output debug information to standard error. Because [opt]*-d*
results in an extremely large amount of information, it is strongly
suggested that standard error be redirected to a file.

*-f*:: Fuse vertices that are within [rep]_distance_tolerance_ of each
other. This can make the solidity detection more reliable, but may
significantly increase processing time during conversion.

*-g [rep]#grouping_option#*:: Choose which face grouping, as defined
in the obj file, to use to create the BRL-CAD primitives. The
grouping_option may be one of (g|o|m|t|n) where g = group (default),
o = object, m = material, t = texture, n = none. Choose a grouping
option which will produce the appropriate primitives for the intended
use of the resulting model. Typically not all groupings exist in every
obj file. Do not choose 'none' as the grouping option unless you have
a specific need for no grouping. Choosing 'none' for a large
conversion will significantly increase the time and system memory
required for a conversion to complete. Choosing a grouping which does
not exist in the obj file has the same effect as choosing
'none'. Note: It is possible for a single grouping to produce up to
four primitives due to the four possible face types that can exist in
an obj file. The values of the index numbers appended to the end of
the primitive names will give an indication if this has occurred.

*-H [rep]#plate_thickness#*:: Plate thickness in mm units of plate or
plate-nocos bots created when the bot is not a closed volume. This
option is ignored unless the open_bot_type is set to 'plate' or 'plate
nocos' (see -o option).

*-i*:: Ignore normals defined in the obj file when the conversion mode
is 'native-bots'. This option has no effect when the conversion mode
is set to 'nmg' or 'bot-via-nmg', where provided normals are always
ignored (see -m option).

*-m [rep]#mode_option#*:: Choose the conversion mode. The mode_option
may be one of (b|n|v) where b = native-bot (default), n = nmg, v =
bot-via-nmg. The 'native-bot' mode is best for a relatively quick
conversion where creating solids is not the highest priority. It
attempts to identify surface closure (solids) but is not as robust as
'bot-via-nmg'. It is the only mode that supports use of the obj file
normals. The 'bot-via-nmg' mode is the best option for creating solids
(i.e. volume-mode-bots).

*-o [rep]#open_bot_type#*:: Type of bot to create when the primitive
is not a closed volume. open_bot_type can be (s|p|n) where s = surface
bot (default), p = plate bot, n = plate-nocos bot. Generally use
'surface bot' if open surface thickness is irrelevant or the purpose
of the resulting model is strictly visualization. Use 'plate bot' or
'plate-nocos bot' when open surfaces must have a defined
thickness. Note: An incorrect plate thickness can create geometry
overlaps. Use the '-H' option to define plate thickness.

*-p*:: Plot open edges when creating bots which are not a closed
volume. A plot/overlay (.plot3) file will be created with the same
name as the bot primitive and be placed in the current directory. If a
plot file already exists, it will be overwritten. Closed edges are
closed but open edges are not necessarily open. This is due to
limitations of the algorithm for identifying open edges.

*-r [rep]#bot_orientation#*:: Orientation type to use for bot
primitives. bot_orientation can be (1|2|3), where 1 = unoriented, 2 =
ccw, and 3 = cw; 1 is default.

*-t [rep]#distance_tolerance#*:: Maximum distance, in mm units, where
two vertices are considered the same. The default is 0.0005mm, which
matches the default raytracer distance tolerance. Do not change this
value unless you also change the raytracer distance tolerance.

*-u [rep]#units_str#*:: Units of obj file, where units_str can be any
valid BRL-CAD unit such as (m|cm|mm|ft|in) or a custom conversion
factor from obj file units to mm.

*-v*:: Output verbose user information to standard error (stderr)
stream. There are different levels of verbose output where higher
levels increase the amount of output information. Each occurrence of
this option in the parameter list increases the verbosity level (two
levels currently). A large amount of information will be output so
redirecting stderr to a file is highly recommended. Verbose messages
add warning and detailed conversion status messages to the default
status and error messages. [opt]*-v* must be enabled for warning
messages to be reported.

*-x [rep]#rt_debug_flag#*:: Specifies debug bits (see raytrace.h).

*-X [rep]#NMG_debug_flag#*:: Specifies debug bits for NMG's (see
nmg.h).

*[rep]#input.obj#*:: The path and file name of the input WaveFront
Object file.

*[rep]#output.g#*:: The path and file name of the output BRL-CAD
database file. If this file already exists, it will be overwritten.

[[_objg_examples]]
== EXAMPLES

The following will convert the obj file _input.obj_ to the BRL-CAD
database _output.g_.

.BOT Conversion
====
[ui]`obj-g -u mm -i input.obj output.g`

Convert obj file 'input.obj' to BRL-CAD database file 'output.g' using
native-bot conversion mode. Non-closed surfaces will be output as
surface-mode bots; closed surfaces will be output as volume-mode
bots. BRL-CAD primitives will be created based on the obj file 'group'
grouping. The obj file units are set to millimeters (implies
conversion factor of 1.0). Any normals specified in the obj file are
ignored. All messages will be sent to the display.
====

.BOT via NMG Conversion
====
[ui]`obj-g -m v -o p -H 5 -g o -v -v input.obj output.g 2> output.log`

Convert obj file 'input.obj' to BRL-CAD database file 'output.g' using
bot-via-nmg conversion mode. Non-closed surfaces will be output as
plate-mode bots, with plate thickness of 5mm. Closed surfaces will be
output as volume-mode bots.  BRL-CAD primitives will be created based
on the obj file 'object' grouping. The obj file units are assumed to
be meters (implies conversion factor of 1000.0). Level two verbose
messages are enabled. All standard-error messages are sent to the log
file 'output.log'.
====

[[_objg_diagnostics]]
== DIAGNOSTICS

Numerous warning and error conditions are possible, usually due to
invalid source geometry. Descriptive messages are printed on standard
error (file descriptor 2). [opt]*-v* must be enabled for warning
messages to be printed.

== AUTHOR

Richard Weiss

include::../footer.adoc[]
