include::../header.adoc[]

= PIXMORPH(1)

== NAME

pixmorph - morph two pix(5) images

== SYNOPSIS

*pixmorph* [-w _width_] [-n _height_] _picA.pix_ _picB.pix_ _linesfile_ _warpfrac_ _dissolvefrac_ > _out.pix_

== DESCRIPTION

[cmd]*pixmorph* performs feature-based image metamorphosis between
"picA.pix" and "picB.pix". The feature correspondences are specified
in the file "linesfile", which can be created using a utility such as
_morphedit.tcl_ (see _morphedit(1)_).

The output image is computed in the following fashion. First, for each
pixel in the output image, we choose a set _A_ of pixels (and
associated weights) from "picA.pix" and another set _B_ of pixels from
"picB.pix" (how these sets and weights are chosen will be described
momentarily). The pixel values from _A_ are then averaged (using the
associated weights) to determine the contribution _cA_ from the
original image; the contribution _cB_ is computed similarly.  Then,
the values _cA_ and _cB_ are interpolated by the value _dissolvefrac_
to compute the final value of the output pixel.

Now, the contribution _cA_ from the original image is intended to be
the value from _picA.pix_ that gets "warped to" the location in
question. It is this computation (more specifically, the computation
of _A_ and associated weights) that is the heart of the morphing
algorithm, and is described briefly here.

First, the linesfile is processed.  The linesfile is of the form a b p
n lineseg1_initial lineseg1_final lineseg2_initial lineseg2_final
linesegn_initial linesegn_final , where _n_ equals the number of line
segments, and _a_, _b_, and _p_ are constants that alter the nature of
the morph. A line segment is represented as a list of four real
numbers (and is interpreted as a directed line segment). For example,
0.1 2.0 0.2 2 0.714844 0.560547 0.988281 0.277344 0.347656 0.646484
0.654297 0.896484 0.341797 0.611328 0.757812 0.265625 0.628906
0.519531 0.925781 0.763672 is a valid lines file. Typically, the pairs
_linesegi_initial linesegi_final_ have been placed by the user in the
lines file to match up particular features of _picA.pix_ and
_picB.pix_ (the feature at _linesegi_initial_ in _picA.pix_
corresponds to the feature at _linesegi_final_ in _picB.pix_). For
instance, _lineseg1_initial_ might be a line segment running down the
length of the nose of a person displayed in _picA.pix_; then
_lineseg1_final_ would be a line segment running down the length of
the nose of the person featured in _picB.pix_. See _morphedit(1)_ for
more information about creating a lines file.

Now, for each line segment pair _(s,t)_, we perform the following
procedure: We interpolate between _s_ and _t_ by factor _warpfrac_ to
yield the interpolated line segment _s'_. From the change in position,
scale, and orientation of a line segment from its initial position _s_
to its interpolated counterpart _s'_ we may deduce a linear
transformation in the image space. More specifically, if the line
segment _s_ must undergo translation, stretching, and rotation to
yield _s'_, we compute a linear transformation _T_ of the image space
that performs the same translation, stretching, and rotation. (So _T_
applied to _s_ yields _s'_.) The inverse _T*_ of this transformation
maps _s'_ to _s_; for instance, _T*_ will take an endpoint of _s'_ to
the corresponding endpoint of _s_, and will preserve the relationship
of every other point to the line segment. We apply this inverse _T*_
to the coordinates _(x,y)_ to find an appropriate pixel in the
original image. Along with this, we compute a weight based on the
length of the line segment _s_ along with its distance from
_(x,y)_. This weight is equal to ( (length +++**+++ p) / (a + dist) )
+++**+++ b (where _**_ denotes exponentiation, _length_ is the length
of _s_, _dist_ is the distance from _s_ to _(x,y)_, and _a_, _b_, _p_
are constants chosen by the user and stored in the lines file).

The set _A_ of pixels is then collected by performing these
computations for each line segment, and the resulting contribution
_cA_ is then computed by averaging over _A_ with the appropriate
weights.

In practice, _a_ = 0.1, _b_ = 2.0, and _p_ = 0.2 seems to work well.

In general, the user will wish to set _warpfrac_ =
_dissolvefrac_. Typically, a morph animation will be produced by
computing a sequence of images using _pixmorph_, each with slightly
greater _warpfrac_ (and _dissolvefrac_) (see the example). For a
clearer and more thorough explanation, see T. Beier and S. Neely,
Feature-Based Image Metamorphosis, "SIGGRAPH 1992 Computer Graphics
Proceedings (volume 26 number 2)", (Chicago, July 26-31, 1992), pp
35-42, which presents the algorithm used by _pixmorph_.

== OPTIONS

*-w* _WIDTH_:: Tells [cmd]*pixmorph* that the input images have width
WIDTH.

*-n* _HEIGHT_:: Tells [cmd]*pixmorph* that the input images have
height HEIGHT.

== EXAMPLES

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.0 0.0 > frame0.pix

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.2 0.2 > frame1.pix

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.4 0.4 > frame2.pix

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.6 0.6 > frame3.pix

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.8 0.8 > frame4.pix

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 1.0 1.0 > frame5.pix

Note that the example above will result in _frame0.pix_ = _face1.pix_
and _frame5.pix_ = _face2.pix_.

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.5 0.0 > out.pix

Note that in this example, _dissolvefrac_ = 0. This will warp
_face1.pix_ and _face2.pix_ by the appropriate amount, but will ignore
the contributions of _face2.pix_ at the cross-dissolve stage. So the
final image _out.pix_ will consist entirely of values from _face1.pix_
warped 50% according to the linesfile _lf_.

  pixmorph face1.pix face2.pix lf 0.0 0.5 > out.pix

In this example, _warpfrac_ = 0. This will perform a simple 50%
cross-dissolve between _face1.pix_ and _face2.pix_.

== SEE ALSO

xref:man:1/brlcad.adoc[*brlcad*(1)],
xref:man:1/morphedit.adoc[*morphedit*(1)],
xref:man:5/pix.adoc[*pix*(5)]

== AUTHOR

BRL-CAD Team

include::../footer.adoc[]
