= Glossary

[[acyclic-directed-graph]]
acyclic directed graph :: In an _acyclic directed graph_, usually
called a _DAG_, each node may have arcs pointing to multiple objects,
and each object may be pointed to by multiple objects.  However, no
node is permitted to refer to any of its ancestors.

[[air-code]]
air code :: See _space code_.

[[azimuth]]
azimuth :: Viewing aspects in _mged_ may be specified in terms of
_azimuth_, elevation, and twist.
+
image::mged/az_el_sm.gif[]
+
_Azimuth_ is the angle (in degrees) around the __z__-axis through
which the viewing direction is rotated from the positive
__xz__-quarterplane towards the positive __y__-axis.  When _azimuth =
elevation_ = 0, for instance, viewing is parallel to the __x__-axis in
the direction of decreasing __x__.  When _azimuth_ = 90 degrees,
viewing is parallel to the __yz__-plane along some direction of
decreasing __y__: the precise direction within the __yz__-plane being
specified by the elevation. _Azimuth_ can take on any real value.

[[Boolean]]
Boolean :: The _Boolean_ (i.e., set-theoretic) operations of
__union__, __intersection__, and _subtraction_ are used in
constructive solid geometry to build complex objects from simpler
ones.
+
image::mged/bool.gif[]

[[boundary-representation]]
boundary representation :: _Boundary representation_ (__BREP__) is one
of the two major types of solid modeling, the other being constructive
solid geometry. _BREP_ objects are built by describing the entire
enclosing surface of an object.  This will typically involve a variety
of surface types including, for example, planar, cylindrical, NURB,
and spherical surfaces.  While objects in a _BREP_ system may be built
using Boolean operations, the resulting object is typically stored as
a set of enclosing surfaces.

[[combination]]
combination :: A _combination_ is a formula for combining primitive
solids and/or other objects into a more complex shape.  Each solid or
other _combination_ directly in this formula is referred to as a
member of this _combination_.  The formula may involve _intersection_,
_subtraction_, and _union_ operations, and the _combination_ may be
assigned a shader and a color. _Combinations_ are typically built in
_mged_ using the c, comb, r, or g commands.Regions and groups are
special types of _combinations_.

[[constructive-solid-geometry]]
constructive solid geometry :: _Constructive solid geometry_ (_CSG_),
sometimes referred to as _combinatorial solid geometry_, is one of the
two major types of solid modeling (The other being boundary
representation). In a _CSG_ system, complex objects are built by
combining simpler objects, with primitive solids as the basic building
blocks.  The combinations make use of Boolean operations, and the
resulting objects are stored as trees. _BRL­CAD_ is actually a hybrid
of _CSG_ and BREP, but its main emphasis is on the _CSG_ capabilities.

[[DAG]]
DAG :: See _acyclic directed graph_.

[[elevation]]
elevation :: Viewing aspects in _mged_ may be specified in terms of
azimuth, _elevation_, and twist. _Elevation_ is the angle (in degrees)
through which the viewing direction is rotated out of the __xy__-plane
towards the positive __z__-axis (see the illustration in the _azimuth_
entry). When _elevation_ = 90 degrees, for instance, viewing is
parallel to the __z__-axis in the direction of decreasing
_z_. _Elevation_ can take on any real value between -90 and +90
degrees.

[[group]]
group :: A _group_ is a combination with all _union_ operators.
Typically a _group_ is used to combine components into a subsystem,
subsystems into a system, or systems into top-level collections.

[[ident]]
ident :: An _ident_ (also referred to as _component ID_, _region ID_,
_item_, or _ID code_) is an integer assigned to a region or regions to
encode information used by application programs that process _BRL­CAD_
models. _Idents_ are assigned by the user and are not directly used by
_BRL­CAD_, but are reported to applications that need them.

[[inheritance]]
inheritance :: _Inheritance_ is an attribute of combinations that
determines how shader attributes are handled when a member of a
combination is itself a combination.  If the _inheritance_ flag is set
to 1, then all the shader attributes of combinations lower in the tree
are overridden by this combination.

[[key-solid]]
key solid :: The _key solid_ is the solid used to provide a reference
during matrix editing operation.  Rotations, translations, and scaling
in this mode are performed about a point on the "key solid".

[[LOS]]
LOS :: An _LOS_ is a percentage (0 to 100) assigned to a region
representing the percentage of the region that consists of material
substance.  It might be thought of as the region`'s _solidity_, and is
somewhat analogous to the alpha channel of a computer graphics
display. _LOS_ is assigned by the user and is not directly used by
_BRL­CAD_, but is reported to applications that need it.

[[material-code]]
material code :: A region may be assigned an integer _material code_
by the user.  This is intended to identify the material used to build
the part. _Material codes_ are assigned by the user and are not
directly used by _BRL­CAD_, but are reported to applications that need
them.

[[matrix-edit-mode]]
matrix edit mode :: This is the mode that _mged_ is in while editing a
transformation matrix in a combination.  It is characterized by the
illumination of one object in the graphics window, and the appearance
of matrix editing selections in the _Edit_ menu.  This mode may be
entered through the _Matrix Selection.._ entry of the _Edit_ menu, or
via the _oed_ command.  Editing operations such as rotation,
translation, and scale may be performed in this mode and will affect
all objects below the edited matrix in the tree.  These operations
will be applied in reference to a key solid that is a leaf of that
tree.

[[member]]
member :: An object is referred to as a _member_ of a combination if
it is directly referenced by the combination.

[[MGED]]
MGED :: _Mged_ is the interactive graphical editor for _BRL­CAD_.  It
may be used to view, modify, and create models.  Normally, the user
views the model in a wireframe display in _mged_.

[[model-coordinates]]
model coordinates :: In a _BRL­CAD_ model, the _model coordinates_ are
the actual coordinates of points on the model in _real_ units.  The
user may position a model at any desired location in _model
coordinates_.  By convention in _BRL­CAD_, a model is oriented so that
the positive __x__-axis points from the model`'s back to its front,
the positive __y__-axis points from the model`'s right to its left,
and, since the coordinate system is right handed, the positive
__z__-axis points from the model`'s bottom to its top.  All _BRL­CAD_
models are stored in millimeters, however the user may operate in
nearly any units by using the _mged_units command.  See also view
coordinates.

[[object]]
object :: _Objects_ are the fundamental entities constituting a
_BRL­CAD_ model.  They are the nodes of the DAG into which the
database is organized.  The terminal nodes, or leaves, of the DAG are
the solids and the internal nodes are the combinations, of which two
types are regions and groups.

[[path]]
path :: A _path_ to an object in _BRL­CAD_ is a list of combinations
that ends at the desired object. _Paths_ are specified with a syntax
similar to the one used in UNIX file systems (with `/` characters as
separators). Each element of the _path_ must be a member of the
previous element.  For example, `left_arm/arm/hand/thumb` might be a
_path_ from `left_arm` to `thumb` in some _BRL­CAD_ database
indicating that `arm` is a member of `left_arm`, `hand` is a member of
`arm`, and `thumb` is a member of `hand`. The _path_ information
implies a set of transformation matrices (each member of a combination
has a transformation matrix associated with it). As a _path_ is
traversed, the effects of encountered transformation matrices are
accumulated, and typically applied to the object at the end of the
_path_.  This means that the `thumb` referred to by the _path_
`left_arm/arm/hand/thumb` is likely to be in a different location and
orientation (and possibly scaled) from the `thumb` referred to by
`right_arm/arm/hand/thumb`.

[[primitive-solid]]
primitive solid :: _Primitive solids_ are the basic building blocks of
CSGsolid modeling systems.  The _primitive solids_ available in
_BRL­CAD_ include:
+
* ARB
* ARBN
* arbitrary faceted solid
* extruded bitmap
* Right Hyperbolic Cylinder
* Elliptical Hyperboloid
* Elliptical Paraboloid
* Right Parabolic Cylinder
* Elliptical Torus
* Ellipsoid
* Half Space
* Height Field
* Non­Manifold Geometry 
* Particle
* Polysolid
* Spline
* Truncated General Cone
* Torus
* VOL

image::mged/prims.gif[]

[[solid-edit-mode]]
solid edit mode :: This is the mode that _mged_ is in while editing an
individual solid.  It is characterized by the illumination of one
solid in the graphics window, and the appearance of solid editing
selections in the _Edit_ menu.  This mode may be entered through the
_Solid Selection.._ entry of the _Edit_ menu, or via the _sed_
command.  Solid specific editing may be performed in this mode, as
well as rotations, translations, and scaling.

[[quaternion]]
quaternion :: Internal to _mged_, the viewing orientation is handled
in terms of _quaternions_.  A _quaternion_ is a method for
representing an arbitrary rotation without the ambiguity at the poles
that accompanies some methods.  A _quaternion_ may be thought of as a
vector (defining an axis of rotation), and a rotation about that axis.

[[ray-trace]]
ray trace :: _Ray tracing_ is the main method for interrogating
_BRL­CAD_ models.  It is performed by selecting a start point and a
ray direction, then calculating the intersections of the resulting ray
with all the primitive solids it encounters.  The segments of the ray
that intersect each primitive solid are then combined according to the
Boolean expressions for each region that refers to those solids.  The
result is a series of intervals on the ray, called _partitions_, that
intersect each region along the ray.  If the objective of the _ray
tracing_ effort is to produce an image, the calculations will
typically be stopped after the first region is encountered.  The
_BRL­CAD_ rt program performs such _ray tracing_.

[[region]]
region :: A _region_ is a combination with special significance for
application programs that process _BRL­CAD_ models.  It corresponds to
a physical entity of uniform material properties.  In addition to all
the attributes of any combination, a _region_ also has an ident
number, a material code number, an LOS number, and a space code
number.  No two _regions_ in a model should share any points in space.
Such _overlaps_ are reported, for instance, by the _BRL­CAD_ ray
tracer, _rt_.

[[region-ID]]
region ID :: See _ident_.

[[RGB]]
RGB :: _RGB_ is an abbreviation for _Red_, _Green_, and _Blue_.  When
a color is specified in _BRL­CAD_, it is in terms of its primary color
components.  Each component may be from 0 to 255.  An _RGB_ of `0 0 0`
is black, `255 255 255` is white, and `0 255 0` is green.

[[rt]]
rt :: _Rt_ is one of the programs in the _BRL­CAD_ package.  It is
used to ray trace a model and produce a color shaded image. _rt_
supports transparency, reflection, refraction, shadows, texture
mapping, light sources, and animation.

[[shader]]
shader :: A _shader_ is a _BRL­CAD_ module that performs calculations
to determine the actual pixel color to be displayed when a ray
intersects an object during rendering by rt. _Shaders_ are assigned to
combinations by the user, and some allow additional parameters to
adjust their appearance.  Available _shaders_ include _mirror_,
_glass_, _plastic_, and _texture_ (for texture mapping). Source code
modules in the _rt_ directory with names of the form _sh.c_ correspond
to the available shaders

[[solid-model]]
solid model :: A _solid model_ is a description of an object or
objects produced in such a way that any point can be classified
without ambiguity as lying inside, outside, or on the surface of a
modeled object.  This means that a true solid model cannot have
surfaces that do not completely enclose space, and solid objects that
are defined in the model must not be defined based on irrelevant
variables such as viewing direction.

[[space-code]]
space code :: A _space code_ (or _air code_) is assigned to regions
that are intended to represent "empty air" rather than solid parts of
the model.  The code number may be used to distinguish different air
spaces from one another.  Regions representing solid parts must have a
space code of 0. _Space codes_ are assigned by the user and are not
directly used by _BRL­CAD_, but are reported to applications that need
them.

[[tree]]
tree :: A tree is a Boolean expression representing some aggregation
of objects.  Strictly speaking, this is an abuse of the term _tree_:
such Boolean expressions are not trees in either the computer-science
or the graph-theoretic sense, but are more correctly referred to as
acyclic directed graphs, also known as DAGs.

[[twist]]
twist :: Viewing aspects in _mged_ may be specified in terms of
azimuth, elevation, and _twist_. _Twist_ is the angle (in degrees)
around the screen-__z__-axis through which the (model-) __z__-axis is
rotated from the positive screen-__y__-axis towards the positive
screen-__x__-axis.  (see the illustration in the _azimuth_
entry). When _twist_ = 0, for instance, the positive __z__-axis is
some nonnegative scalar multiple of the positive screen-__y__-axis.

[[view-coordinates]]
view coordinates :: When an object is displayed in the _mged_ graphics
window, it is converted from model to _view_ coordinates.  The _view
coordinate_ system has its origin at the center of the viewing cube
(the center of the _mged_ display). The _view___x__-axis always points
to the right, the _view___y__-axis always points toward the top of the
display, and the _view___z__-axis always points out of the screen
towards the viewer.  The visible portion of view space (known as the
`viewing cube`) extends from -1.0 to +1.0 along each of the _view_
axes.
