:pp: {plus}{plus}

Welcome to the BRL-CAD community publication portal. This page is
dedicated to the preparation and editing of BRL-CAD announcements.
Proposed and upcoming topics are listed. Anyone is *welcome and
encouraged* to share news about any activity related to BRL-CAD.
Community editing and review are encouraged.

*TOC*

*Formatting & Editing Standards:*

* Quotations are italicized and placed between double quotes (_"Like
This"_).

//

* AA (All Acronyms) need to be defined upon first use, don't abbrev.
words.

//

* Section headings uppercase the major words and are in bold (*Like
This*)

//

* Use the serial comma: one, two, and three; not one, two and three.

//

* Cite references, include hyperlinks.

//

* Keep it brief.

*Distribution Channels:*

For release publications, follow
http://brlcad.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/brlcad/brlcad/trunk/HACKING[HACKING].
For everything else, distribute to the following:

* brlcad-news@lists.sourceforge.net
* http://brlcad.org/d/node/add/story
* https://sourceforge.net/news/?group_id=105292
* (optional) https://brlcad.org/wiki/
* (optional) http://www.tenlinks.com/NEWS/tl_daily/submit_news.htm
* (optional) http://upfrontezine.com

'''

'''

== Ready for Publication

These articles are ready for publication. Release notes should be posted
after tarballs, ideally the last or first week of a month. Other
publications should be scheduled one or two weeks later, ideally on the
second or third week of the month.

NOTE: if you see a comment indicating that a section is FROZEN, any
changes you make in that section may go unnoticed as the article is
being prepared for distribution. If you find errors in a FROZEN article,
go ahead and correct the article but contact Sean (brlcad on freenode
link:IRC[IRC]) who may be able to incorporate changes during
final publication.

*_Move from Final Review to Here When Ready_*

'''

== Final Review

[discrete]
==== Google Code In 2014

Out of only 12 selected, we're very proud to announce that BRL-CAD is
participating in the 2014 Google Code-In (GCI) program! Complementary to
the highly successful Google Summer of Code program for university
students, GCI is a contest to encourage pre-university students (age
13-17) to get involved with open source.This is the third consecutive
year, BRLCAD is accepted as a mentoring organization.

Read more shall be redirected to -> http://brlcad.org/wiki/GCI2014

[discrete]
==== Geometry Viewer

Geometry Viewer-

*What is a geometry viewer?*

It's a service which allows users to manage all there geometry files. It
can upload and view BRL-CAD geometry files in a different format so that
others can edit it. But it's currently under construction.

*It's the equivalent to?*

It's like a Facebook for files where you can share other files with the
public and then they can edit, change or fix the application to make it
smother.

*Why is it used?*

It's used to allow the user to become more organised and make the user
interface easier to follow and understand.

*What is needed to access this service?*

All you need on your computer with a Web GL supported browser, BRL-CAD,
three.js and a Linux Apache MySQL PHP (LAMP).

*How it works?*

Using BRL-CAD it changes the format to OBJ and loads it through the
three.js all in all it converts then loads.

*Advantages*

•Easier for the user to manage

•Allows all user to see the file as it converts the format

•Makes sharing easier and safer due to the fact you still have overall
control

•It allows the skills of strangers to improve your application safely

•Its currently under construction so more features will be add

By Mohamed Hammeda

[discrete]
==== Alexander Lotsu: Wanted - Software Maintainer for Windows Binary Platform

Do you enjoy correcting faults?

Would you like to make improvements to software that vast numbers of
users will benefit from?

Would you like to enhance your resume and gain wider experience? Do you
have some spare time?

We need a software maintainer/release maintainer. Maintainers are needed
for free and open source software to perform a variety of tasks. As
BRL-CAD is a cross-platform system it has maintainers allocated to many
binary platforms but does not currently have one for Windows. We are
looking for someone to fill this voluntary role which is critical when
releasing software.

A maintainer is someone who is basically willing to support creating the
release for a particular platform (In this case Windows). Typical
responsibilities include building source code into a binary package,
patching and investigating platform issues, naming and announcing a
release.

To find out more or to indicate your interest, announce your interest
either through:

BRL-CAD devel Mailing List -
http://sourceforge.net/p/brlcad/mailman/brlcad-devel/

BRL-CAD IRC Channel - http://brlcad.org/wiki/IRC

Further Information

 If you wish for more detail about releases on BRL-CAD, visit this
link: http://svn.code.sf.net/p/brlcad/code/brlcad/trunk/HACKING (Go to
the section on releases near the bottom of the page)

 For a definition of a Software/Release maintainer, visit this link:
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_maintainer

Article written by Alexander Lotsu

[discrete]
==== Google Code In 2013 Updates

The Google Code-in is a contest to introduce pre-university students
(ages 13-17) to the many kinds of contributions that make open source
software development possible. This is the second consecutive year when
the esteemed open source solid modeling tool, BRL-CAD is accepted to
participate in Google Code-In, out of the total of 10 organizations
chosen.

Many of you would be wondering about the participation of BRL-CAD in GCI
so far and hence, I came up with this post. The contest runs from
November 18, 2013 to January 6, 2014. Its December,15 today, where we
are exactly half-way on the journey. This year BRL-CAD has received an
over-whelming response from young smart talented kids from all around
the world, where they are contributing to small itty-bitty tasks of not
more than 72 hours based in various domains related to software
development and maintenance like Coding, Documentation and Training,
Quality Assurance, User Interface and Outreach and Research.

After many task claims, reclaims, rejection, improvements, exchange of
ideas and views between students and mentors via comments, IRC and
mailing list and then acceptance of each task, till date, 87 tasks with
minutely observed perfection have been closed successfully. 3 tasks are
with status 'Needs Work', which means one of the mentors has sent back
those tasks for more work. 4 tasks are on the to-be-reviewed list of
mentors, 7 tasks currently claimed and 21 tasks are reopened and 85
tasks open with a total of 207 tasks.

I hope the young brains are enjoying while they work on the kinds of
tasks they are comfortable. It is not just about working on tasks, it
means much more than that. I bet, being a part of an awesome, cool and
one of the most friendly open source organizations and working in
collaboration with fantastic perks all across the planet Earth at such a
small age will be an astronomical experience for participants.

A huge thanks to all participants for making it a huge and happening
contest. Thanks to all mentors for adding tasks time-to-time to meet the
demand and supply curve of fresh new tasks. Special thanks to Sean, the
man without whom BRL-CAD's participation in GCI is hard to imagine. All
the best kids for rest of the contest. A ticket to Google's Mountain
View, California, USA Headquarters is awaiting for two grand-prize
winners. Good Luck ! :)

[discrete]
==== GCI 2013 Quick Update/ Highlights (2)

With 12 days, 2 hours remaining for the task to end, i.e. 33% of the
contest still remaining, we have got pretty amazing statistics until
now.

After many task claims, reclaims, rejection, improvements, exchange of
ideas and views between students and mentors via comments, IRC and
mailing list and then acceptance of each task, till date, 162 tasks with
minutely observed perfection have been closed successfully. 7 tasks are
with status 'Needs Work', which means one of the mentors has sent back
those tasks for more work. 2 tasks are on the to-be-reviewed list of
mentors, 4 tasks currently claimed and 73 tasks open with a total of 247
tasks.

We have already crossed 25% more than that of the last year's record.
Let wait and watch how far can we go and break our own records.

Good luck Kids !

Keep Contributing to FOSS !

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD Accomplishments : GCI 2012

http://www.google-melange.com/gci/org/google/gci2012/brlcad[Google Code -In
2012]
brought 69 budding new shoots and branches to the mighty BRL-CAD tree,
and the canopy of warmth and love offered by the community helped them
blossom and bloom in the 7 weeks of the program . With a few snips, a
little trimming and pruning, they have learned, innovated, created and
contributed to one of the largest free and open source communities in
the world, and have contributed to a software that will touch many
people around the world. They now have their roots planted in the
BRL-CAD community with the successful completion of their tasks and are
ready to shelter budding shoots to come!

We had 66 students from 36 countries complete 178 tasks in the 7 week
contest. Students worked with BRL-CAD on coding, documentation,
training, user interface, research, outreach tasks, and quality
assurance tasks.

Akshay Kashyap and Cezar El-Nazli were among the 20 lucky and
hardworking http://google-opensource.blogspot.in/2013/06/google-code-in-grand-prize-winners.html[grand prize winners of
GCI-2012]
who received a trip to Google's Mountain View, California, USA
Headquarters for themselves and a parent or legal guardian for an award
ceremony, an opportunity to meet with Google engineers, explore the
Google campus and have a fun day in the San Francisco, California sun.

http://www.google-melange.com/gci/homepage/google/gci2013[Google Code In
2013] has
been already announced. If you are of the age 13-17 years, a
pre-university student, this is the best opportunity for you to grab and
get your hands on and step into the whole new world of software
development and maintenance. Are You Ready ?

More information on what is Google Code-In, how you can participate,
what are the exciting prizes for you, etc. is available
http://brlcad.org/wiki/Google_Code_In[here].

For further queries mail us on our http://brlcad.org/wiki/Mailing_Lists[mailing
list] or contact us via
http://brlcad.org/wiki/IRC[IRC]

'''

[discrete]
==== "Improving BRL-CAD's networking library":Andrei - Constantin Popescu

by: Plamen Nikiforov

Andrei - Constantin Popescu is a second year undergraduate at
Polytechnic University of Bucharest, studying at the computer science
department. Here is an interview about Andreis Google Summer of Code
project. Plamen(Pl): How did you found out about BRL-CAD and why did you
chose to them?

Andrei(An): I heard about BRL-CAD when I was searching for a Google
Summer of Code project to do. After doing some research on their website
regarding Google Summer of Code ideas, several interested me
particularly. The language I am currently strongest in is C and I am
also interested in computer graphics, this motivated me towards applying
for BRL-CAD. Another key aspect was that the BRL-CAD mentoring community
was very friendly and helpful towards me.

Pl: Why did you choose "Improving BRL-CAD's networking library" to be
your project?

An: The first project idea I proposed was " Code reduction". First, I
looked at this project at Sean's suggestion. There were several reasons
why I chose this project idea : I was taking a networking course and it
would help me consolidate my knowledge and the performance testing
seemed a more interesting problem to investigate.

Pl: What were your aims of the project?

An: My initial aims were to investigate and fix any performance
bottleneck regarding transfer speed for various file sizes and package
sizes, test the code integrity of networking library and eliminating as
many unhandled exceptions as well as eliminating global variables from
the networking library.

"`Here are some of Andreis performance measurements for different package
sizes: Package size 1 -- 2048 - http://i.imgur.com/OPum5.png Package
size 2048 -- 4194304 - http://i.imgur.com/fH4rL.png Package size 1 --
4194304 - http://i.imgur.com/AXUpN.png `"

Pl: Has this project helped your skills improve?

An: Definetly! The most important aspect is that I greatly improved my
communication skills. Aside of that, I also improved my capacity to work
in a team, developed the ability to work with a large code base and of
course improved my implementation skills.

Pl: Would you continue to contribute to BRL-CAD? An: Of course ! I
continued to contribute even after Google Summer of Code. Even if my
contributions aren't as numerous as I would like because of my crowded
academic schedule, I am trying t

== Initial Drafts

These are incomplete articles being worked on. Short 250 to 500-word
articles (not counting tables, images, etc) are usually perfect.

image::BRL-CAD_Primitives_Chart.png[]

[discrete]
==== Mitchell Roberts: Chart of all Primitives

BRL-CAD supports 37 geometric primitive solids. A database containing
one example of each created and arranged into a chart. Each colored
rectangle in the background corresponds to a different type of primitive
(ex: the red group contains cones and cylinders). Primitives that fall
under multiple categories, like the pipe (made of cylinders and toroids)
are contained by multiple background rectangles. The ars and bot
examples did not raytrace correctly, but are continuing to be worked on.

The database can be used not only for a demonstration of BRL-CAD's
primitives and their unique uses, but also for regression testing.
Outputs from raytracing functions like rtWeight and rtArea can be
compared to established normals to ensure changes to the source code do
not cause unwanted changes to the way any primitives are raytraced. In
the future, a tool to create the database automatically will hopefully
be created and added to BRL-CAD's regression testing suite.

[discrete]
==== Physics Simulation System

BRL-CAD includes a Bullet-based rigid-body physics simulation system.
The system takes advantage of BRL-CAD's ray tracing API to detect
collisions between arbitrarily-shaped geometry, which are then passed to
Bullet for physics calculations. The current system consists of a
working demo allowing one object to be subjected to gravity and then
collide with a fixed "ground" object.

Recently, the physics system has received some attention as BRL-CAD
works towards support for geometric constraints and joint systems. The
goal is to expand the demo into a useful physics system capable of
real-time simulation displayable in the Archer interface. In addition to
various bug fixes and performance improvements, changes that will be
merged soon include a flexible way for users to define simulation scenes
using BRL-CAD's attribute system along with a simple combination-based
scene description.

A video of the improved simulation system can be viewed at
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xzaKWzntnmc

[discrete]
==== Documentation Redux

BRL-CAD was selected to participate in the 2013 Google Summer of Code
*http://www.flossmanuals.org/news/2013-doc-camp-call-proposals[Doc
Camp]*.
A team of contributors got together in California, brainstormed, and
wrote an entire book for BRL-CAD in just a few days. They created a
guide for contributing to BRL-CAD.

image::DocCamp_WorkingHard.jpg[]

Contrary to and perhaps because of longstanding efforts, people
interested in improving BRL-CAD sometimes find themselves lost in a sea
of information. In all, BRL-CAD has more than a million words of
documentation across hundreds of manual pages, dozens of tutorials and
examples, hundreds of wiki pages, dozens of technical papers, and other
resources. It's a lot, created over decades of development.

Over the course of a week in October, members from our community
participated in something fresh. Something different.

image::DocCamp_TopicWall.jpg[]

A team of individuals traveled to the Google headquarters in Mountain
View, California, to participate in a 2-part event: an unconference and
a book sprint. Teams for GNOME, OpenMRS, and BRL-CAD arrived on the
Google campus and talked about techniques, tools, formats, documenters,
and more. By the end of the week, seven individuals from four different
countries, three continents, and one oceanic island produced a book for
BRL-CAD more than 100 pages in length.

As free open source software, one of BRL-CAD's greatest strengths is
that anyone can get involved and directly contribute. You can make it
better. This new book focuses on that aspect and introduces people to
the project while providing detailed information for developers,
writers, artists, and other potential contributors.

image::DocCamp_Relaxing.jpg[]

This new effort kick-starts a campaign to dramatically improve BRL-CAD's
documentation, starting with this new contributor's guide.

Attending the camp provided an exciting opportunity to get a grasp on
new techniques for documenting and sharing information about our
software, hopefully in ways that help us grow our community. BRL-CAD's
team included Sean Morrison, Eric Edwards, Cliff Yapp, Harmanpreet
Singh, Check Nyah, Isaac Kamga, and Scott Nesbitt. Thank you to Google
for their sponsorship, http://aspirationtech.org/[Aspiration] for
magnificently framing the event, and http://www.flossmanuals.org/[FLOSS
Manuals] for directing the production.

image::DocCamp_Team.png[]

[discrete]
==== Anurag Murty: Voxelizing Geometry

Given a set of primitives as input, the voxelize command uses the data
obtained from BRL-CAD's raytracer to represent the input in the form of
voxels(Volumetric Picture Elements). A uniform grid of rays is uniformly
shot on the given input and an approximation of the volume filled in
each voxel region is made from the raytracing data. Depending on the
approximate volume of the voxel filled, a voxel is classified as IN or
OUT of the voxelized output. The voxels are represented as RPPs. Such
voxelized outputs have applications in Volumetric rendering and finite
element analysis.

SYNTAX : voxelize [-s "dx dy dz"] [-d n] [-t f] new_obj old_obj
[old_obj2 old_obj3 ...]

ARGUMENTS-

-d - Specifies the level of detail(precision in approximation of volume)
required. An input of n means that n * n rays will be shot through each
row, and an approximation of volume filled is reached averaging these n
* n values

-s - Specifies the voxel size in each direction.

-t - Specifies the threshold volume to decide if voxel is to be included
in the voxelized output.

new_obj - Name for resultant primitive that is a region containing the
resulting voxels.

old_obj - Name of source primitive or collection.

NOTES-

1. A greater level of detail usually implies a much better
approximation of fill volumes at the cost of more computations.

2. Lesser voxel sizes give a more precise representation of the input
at the cost of more memory requirements.

3. Threshold value (the argument of -t) should be a value between 0 and
1, and not a percentage.

[discrete]
==== Cristina Precup: Visualizing Directed Acyclic Graphs

*Visualizing Constructive Solid Geometry* is a project meant to
illustrate in an intuitive and interactive manner the hierarchical
structure of .g geometry databases.

For the representation of the hierarchies, the *Adaptagrams* graph
library has been used. This made possible organizing the objects
contained within the database into directed acyclic graphs.

Following, are the steps that have been taken in developing the graph
layout API:

* Integrate the Adaptagrams library into BRL-CAD.
* Traverse the geometry database and distinguish different types of
objects (_primitive_, _combination_, _non-geometry_) within it, as
well as, establish the operations between them (_union_,
_difference_, ...). Add all this data to the graph structure
constructed with Adaptagrams.
* Display the objects using a Tk Canvas widget inside a window.
* Develop a _decorative routine_ that sets different colors for
different types of objects, correspondingly.
* Create a name label for each represented object.
* Develop a layout algorithm that aligns the nodes of the graph in a
hierarchical way.
* Introduce the *graph* command in both *MGED* and *Archer*. It
has two subcommands:
 ** *show* which displays a list with the name and type of the
objects along with the nodes' and edges' positions;
 ** *positions* that lists the names, types and positions of the
corresponding nodes within the graph;
* Introduce the *igraph* command in both MGED and Archer. This
command pops up a graph based visualization window of the currently
opened .g database. Its documentation can be found in _brlman_.

As an example, here is how the graph for the _share/db/axis.g_ database
looks like now:

image::Graph_editor_v2.png[Image:Graph_editor_v2.png]

Further work that can extend the _interactive_ trait of the graph layout
API includes adding user actions upon the graph such as _move_ (dragging
a node) or _delete_ functionalities.

[discrete]
==== Ksenija Slivko: Reducing Code

[discrete]
===== Abstract

The main aim of this project was to decrease the number of lines of code
in the project. Since the project is being developing for quite a long
time there were many "copy-pastes". They were redacted.

[discrete]
===== The process of developing

Coding period can be divided into three parts:

* reduction in the single files
* reduction in different files in the single program or library
* reduction in different libraries

[discrete]
===== Improving

Since the project is quite large the redaction can be continued

[discrete]
==== Laijiren: NURBS Tessellation: What, Why, How?

[discrete]
===== Abstract

Non-Uniform Rational B-Spline surfaces are widely used in CAD system.
But they are not suitable for direct visualization on modern GPU
systems. Today's graphics hardware supports the high-speed display of
polygonal objects consisting of triangles. This means that analytical
surfaces (like NURBS) need to be triangulated so they can be displayed
by 3D graphics cards.

[discrete]
===== Main work

[discrete]
===== For debugging tool

* add 'info TB' 'info SB' to display information of piecewise bezier
trim curve
* add 'info T' 'info E' to display information of trim curve in
parameter region and edge in 3d region
* add 'plot SCV' to display control point net and 'plot TESS' to
display the result of tessellation

[discrete]
===== For surface tree

* subdivide a Nurbs surface in a adaptive method and a new recursion
termination condition for surface subdivision.

reference:NURBS rendering in OpenSG Plus

* implement the doTrimming function in Surface tree.

1)compute the intersection between trim curve and rect's edge of
sub-surface in parameter region

2)implement a trimLoop class to get the valid loop and the trimmed loop

3)triangulate the valid loop in form of polygon

[discrete]
==== Suryajith Chillara: Benchmark Performance Database

[discrete]
===== Abstract

The main idea is to store the data both in the database and the log
files stored in the archive. The storage in the database enables the
content to be searched via the parameters such as machine descriptions,
versions, results and could be compared. The storage as a file in the
archive is to maintain a back up of the file and whenever a developer
needs a specific bunch of benchmark logs, he could get them from the
archive with or without the help of the database.

[discrete]
===== Main Components

* *Log Parser :* The data of the log file needs to be parsed and the
relevant and important information has to be logged in the database
so as to make the data access for the graphic display through the
frontend could be made possible.
* *Web API :* Implemented via the bottle framework so as to submit
the logs from the brlcad installation via scripts.
* *Web backend :* A backend has been implemented as a MVC framework
from scratch using the python bottle framework.
* *Frontend :* The website that can offer multiple mechanisms for
adding new performance run data into the database and provide
multiple graphical and non-graphical visualizations of aggregate
performance data (i.e., graphs, charts, tables, etc). Graphs, tables
and charts are generated with the help of Google Charts via wrapper
which generates the javascript code to interact with the Google
Charts service.

image::Absavgperfvsimagescomb.png[Image:Absavgperfvsimagescomb.png]

Plumbing between these components is via the python scripts.

[discrete]
===== Tool & Service dependancies

* Python 2.7 and libraries
* Bottle web framework
* MySQL
* Google Charts

[discrete]
==== Wu Jianbang: NURBS surface-surface intersections

I focused on the "NURBS surface-surface intersections" project after the
mid-term evaluation of this year's GSoC, before which I worked on
converting implicit primitives to NURBS B-rep forms.

The function calculating NURBS surface-surface intersection curves is
surface_surface_intersection() which is declared in include/nurbs.h
and implemented in src/libnurbs/opennurbs_ext.cpp. It outputs
intersection curves in 3d space and in both surfaces' UV parameter
spaces.

The approach of the algorithm originates from:

Adarsh Krishnamurthy, Rahul Khardekar, Sara McMains, Kirk Haller, and
Gershon Elber. 2008. Performing efficient NURBS modeling operations on
the GPU. In Proceedings of the 2008 ACM symposium on Solid and physical
modeling (SPM '08). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 257-268.
DOI=10.1145/1364901.1364937 http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1364901.1364937

It can be divided into several steps:

* Generate the bounding box of the two surfaces.
* If their bounding boxes intersect:
 ** Split the two surfaces, both into four parts, and calculate the
sub-surfaces' bounding boxes
 ** Calculate the intersection of sub-surfaces' bboxes, if they do
intersect, go deeper with splitting surfaces and smaller bboxes,
otherwise trace back.
* After getting the intersecting bboxes, approximate the surface
inside the bbox with two triangles, and calculate the intersection
points of the triangles (both in 3d space and two surfaces' UV
space)
* Fit the intersection points into polyline curves, and then to NURBS
curves. Points with distance less than max_dis are considered in
one curve.

It needs to be mentioned here that the value max_dis can be provided by
the user or generated automatically.

Besides, after calculating the intersection curves, the next steps
towords evaluated NURBS are splitting the surfaces into sub-surfaces
with the intersection curves as their boundaries, and some
inside-outside tests to decide which sub-surfaces should be included in
the final object. Some work on splitting has been done, generating some
b-rep faces that can pass IsValid(), but still further work is needed.

[discrete]
==== Andrei Popescu: Network Performance Testing

The project that I have been working on during the summer, as part of
the Google Summer of Code program,
can be broken down into three independent parts and it consisted in
running various tests for the BRL-CAD
networking library(Libpkg) .

* Speed testing and investigations to uncover any potential
performance bottleneck.
* Unit tests and code review to find and cover any untreated
exceptions(crashes) in the Libpkg library.
* Eliminate the assumption of globals in the API.

For the first part, I have run two types of tests :
Local ones, both the "sender" and the "receiver" were located on
localhost. The script gathered data
regarding the transmission speed for each set of package sizes (Here,
package refers to the package
created by networking library, not networking packages) respectively
file sizes.

Remote ones, where the "sender" and the "receiver" were on separate
machines, connected using SSH.
The script ran and the data gathered was done in the same way as the
localhost one.Using the data
obtained from the tests, two 3D graphs were drawn.However, the tests
were inconclusive, I could not find
an "ideal" package size to use regardless of file size.

After Mid-term I focused mostly on second part. I used test units from
libbu(Utility library) as an example
for the unit test type and design. When the mentioned tests were run,
several exceptions that caused
crashes were discovered. Lastly, I have written fixes for the discovered
crashes.

The third part of the project has not been covered yet, so more work is
needed.Although, I am doing my
best to finish it in the following weeks.

[discrete]
==== Chris Dueck: Calculating 2D Sketch Surface Area

Calculating the surface area of a 2D Sketch primitive is not a trivial
task. Sketches are created interactively by the user, and can contain
straight line segments, circular arc segments (and full circles), as
well as Bezier and NURBS curves.

The method used to approximately compute the area of a 2D sketch is as
follows:

* 1.) Approximate the sketch by a polygon
* 2.) Compute the area of the polygon exactly using Green's Theorem
* 3.) Add the areas of any circular arc segments that were created
during (1)

To approximate the sketch by a polygon, each possible curve type of a
sketch must be considered.

* If the curve is a straight line, it need not be approximated.

//

* If the curve is a circular arc, it must be determined if it is a
full circle (in which case its area can be computed easily) or if it
is a circular arc segment. If it is a circular arc segment, the line
segment from the beginning of the arc to the endpoint is added to
the polygon, and the excess area of the circular arc segment itself
can be calculated easily
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Circular_segment)

//

* If the curve is a Bezier curve, it can be approximated by a series
of circular arcs. The algorithm used can be found here
(http://itc.ktu.lt/itc354/Riskus354.pdf). The algorithm recursively
subdivides the Bezier until it is approximated to tolerance by a
biarc and uses the curvature value of the Bezier at a point to
determine the depth of subdivision. Then each circular arc in the
approximation of the Bezier curve is treated as above.

Finally, the area of the polygon can be efficiently calculated using
Green's Theorem
(http://www.softsurfer.com/Archive/algorithm_0101/algorithm_0101.htm#3D%20Standard%20Formula)
using cross products.

[discrete]
==== Cliff Yapp: NURBS Ray Tracing in BRL-CAD

Over the past year, an intense development effort by BRL-CAD's
development team has successfully implemented raytracing of Non-Uniform
Rational BSpline (NURBS) geometry within the BRL-CAD Computer-Aided
Design (CAD) package. NURBS surfaces are very general, very complex
mathematical shapes used by virtually all modern commercial CAD software
packages. Because BRL-CAD did not originally support this type of
geometry, commercial models could only be imported into BRL-CAD after a
labor-intensive and difficult conversion process from NURBS form to
triangle-base geometry (referred to in BRL-CAD as Bags-of-Triangles or
BoTs). The new NURBS raytracing capability builds on work by many
developers over a period of years, who in turn built on the open source
library OpenNURBS. Support for this primitive type means BRL-CAD can now
store and raytrace data from commercial models without requiring
preliminary conversion to another type of geometry.

The last major feature needed to make import of commercial models in
BRL-CAD straightforward is conversion support for ISO's "Standard for
the Exchange of Product model data" or STEP file format. STEP uses NURBS
geometry in its definition, making support for NURBS geometry a
necessary prelude to support for STEP import. Most commercial CAD
modelers support this file format as an output option, hence STEP
support in BRL-CAD would allow a direct path for moving geometric
descriptions from a variety of commercial modelers to BRL-CAD.
Considerable progress has already been made on STEP import support, but
more work is need to bring the code and feature set to "production
quality". If anyone would like to join the BRL-CAD open source
development effort and has a little familiarity with C{pp}, the step-g
converter and its supporting libraries have some simple-yet-useful tasks
that would be an excellent and very useful way to explore the project -
join BRL-CAD's IRC channel or development email list if you are
interested!

[discrete]
==== Erik Greenwald: Bolting ADRT's libtie under the hood

image::BoTvsTie.png[]

Initial progress on the integration of ADRT's libtie "triangle
intersection engine" with LIBRT.

[discrete]
==== Tan YuGin: BRL-CAD's Code Hardening Efforts

A/N: Written as a Google Code-in 2013 task.

BRL-CAD is a large-scale software based on decades of development and
contains over a million lines of code. Its contributors are numerous and
come from countries all over the world. Any project of such magnitude is
bound to face problems with ensuring consistency and high standards
across its various aspects.

The core team behind BRL-CAD, however, has sought to alleviate such
issues as far as possible. In a '`HACKING`' document included with the
rest of the software, the team has provided universal guidelines and
good practices for all BRL-CAD code, in areas such as code formatting,
organization, and conventions. BRL-CAD also encourages the use of
various tools to make it easier for them to check for problems or errors
in their work. These tools include the Simian similarity analyzer, a
program that detects duplicated code and allows developers to refactor
it into space-saving functions, and the built-in CPPCHECK-CLEANUP tool,
which checks for issues such as stylistic errors or unused functions.

image::Simian_analysis_sample_output.PNG[Image:Simian_analysis_sample_output.PNG]

_Sample output of Simian similarity analyzer. Screenshot courtesy of
BRL-CAD wiki._

image::CPPCHECK-CLEANUP_sample_output.PNG[Image:CPPCHECK-CLEANUP_sample_output.PNG]

_Sample output of CPPCHECK-CLEANUP tool. Screenshot courtesy of BRL-CAD
wiki._

BRL-CAD enforces the practice of strict compilation, treating all of the
compiler's warnings as matters that have to be resolved before
development can proceed. Any detected issues that are in actual fact
errors can thus be fixed. Even incorrectly detected errors are often due
to weaknesses in the code and can also be dealt with.

Finally, BRL-CAD has since 2006 participated in the Coverity Scan
Initiative, where a thorough source code analysis is performed and a
list of detected problems generated. In 2012, a team of core developers
met up in person and fixed over fifteen hundred of the issues reported
in the latest scan. This reduced BRL-CAD's defect density to just 0.22
defects per thousand lines of code- less than a quarter of the industry
average.

image::CoverityExample2.png[Image:CoverityExample2.png]

_Coverity analysis showing secure coding suggestions. Image courtesy of
BRL-CAD wiki._

Through a range of comprehensive guidelines and tools that help
contributors to ensure that their code abides by these rules, BRL-CAD
can thus be developed and contributed to by numerous programmers from
across the globe while simultaneously maintaining a high standard and
consistency of code, ultimately resulting in a feature-packed yet
well-refined software for the larger community.

[discrete]
==== Anita Leung: Choose BRL-CAD

https://vimeo.com/83215836

BRL-CAD is a powerful modeling system consisting of more than a million
lines of C/C{pp} code. If you are an ambitious developer, dedicate your
passion toward this robust open source project. Practice your abilities
and build your assets. BRL-CAD is downloaded and used thousands of times
each month by people all around the globe; let your contributions be
shared among others. Collaborate with a community of same interests. and
join the team today.

'''

========Marie Gita Ribeiro : DISCOVER BRL-CAD===========
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=whnRqAS-UZs&feature=youtu.be

This free open source modelling system is perfect for anyone interested
in and passionate about design. Utilize the endless tools at your
disposal as you design with real materials and work with volume and
content not just the surface. BRL-CAD is one of the oldest CAD in the
world but just keeps getting better thanks to a community of
contributors from all over the world. If you still haven't; discover
BRL-CAD for yourself and unleash your creativity.

== Idea Hopper

These are ideas for interesting or useful publications. We need someone
to at least write a draft.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD's Evolutionary API

Talk about BRL-CAD deprecation process.

[discrete]
==== Introduction to new .deb and .rpm builds

Brief article overviewing the efforts by jordisayol for Debian, Ubuntu,
Fedora, and openSUSE. Included are new icons, menu items, mime type
associations, and more.

[discrete]
==== 2010 End Of Year Review

Article giving an overview of the past year's highlight developments
with hints at what 2011 may bring. Alternatively, may be the annual
statistics review if we switch from fiscal to calendar year reporting.

[discrete]
==== Erik Greenwald: ADRT/ISST Visualization

Article introducing ADRT/ISST core capability.

[discrete]
==== Bob Parker: Alpha Archer: Working Towards Next Generation MGED

Article introducing Archer's core new features that will be "coming" to
MGED. Undo, interactive editing, tree view, and info panels come to
mind.

[discrete]
==== Finding the Hot Spots

Article on the rt lighting model Stephen Kennedy developed that
visualizes the time spent per-pixel.

[discrete]
==== Point Clouds

Article introducing the new point cloud primitive.

[discrete]
==== bn_mat_inv: singular matrix

Article on the v4 format and binary compatibility.

[discrete]
==== Model Showcase: Goliath

Article talking about the making of the Goliath model.

[discrete]
==== Model Showcase: Chumaciera

Article on Pedro Baptista's bearing model.

[discrete]
==== Model Showcase: Proyecto Catapulta

Article on a model developed by André Santos, António Almeida, and Pedro
Ferreira.

[discrete]
==== Model Showcase: Union Coupling Tool

Article on a model developed by Inês de Matos under teacher Luís
Ferreira. The project focuses on a tool, union coupling, based on the
book, http://purl.pt/14352 , page 122 of the original book and page
128 of the file, figures 108 and 109.

[discrete]
==== Geometry Service FAQ

FAQ summarization of the GS as it pertains to the wider open source
community.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD's 3rd Generation Build System

Article on the new CMake build system.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD's Open Source Vision

Article introducing the Project Priorities diagram and overall project
vision.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD Primitives Showcase

Article summarizing all of BRL-CAD's primitives and their current
status.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD Geometry Converter Showcase

Article summarizing all of BRL-CAD's geometry converters.

[discrete]
==== Release Schedule

Explain our release schedule and versioning system.

[discrete]
==== RTGL

Article on Nick's point-based visualization mode.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD Quick Reference Card

Article on a BRL-CAD QRC similar to the existing MGED QRC.

[discrete]
==== BRL-CAD Bibliography

After the .bib gets published to the website, an article announcing it
and soliciting additions.

[discrete]
==== Revolve Primitive

Article on Timothy Van Ruitenbeek's work implementing 'revolve'.

[discrete]
==== Parametrics and Constraints

Article on Dawn Thomas' work to integrate parametric equation and
constraint evaluation support.

[discrete]
==== Converting Implicit to Explicit: CSG to BREP NURBS

Article on the work by Cliff Yapp, Joe Doliner, and Ben Poole converting
primitives with an implicit representation into an explicit NURBS
representation.

[discrete]
==== Online Model Repository

Article on Elena Băutu's work developing the model repository website.

[discrete]
==== Project Statistics for 2010

Article on our current stats similar to previous years.

[discrete]
==== Next Generation BRL-CAD

Article on our super secret awesome new GUI.
