= Evaluating Geometry
:doctype: book
:sectnums:
:toc: left
:icons: font
:experimental:
:sourcedir: .

Evaluating geometry for correctness is an important companion to
building real-world models.  In fact, without testing the validity of
the geometry's positioning and composition, the modeling process has
not actually been completed.  Evaluation is performed at the following
two times in the modeling process: (1) after individual objects are
built and organized into regions and combinations, and (2) after the
model is completely built.  In both cases, the primary evaluation goal
is to identify any errors in measurement, logic, or input that would
make the model invalid or unrealistic.

One common error that the evaluation process reveals is overlapping
geometry.  Overlaps are the physical violation that occurs when two or
more objects (regions) occupy the same volume in space.  While this
condition is occasionally acceptable (e.g., when modeling air
volumes), it creates inaccuracies when the geometry is later analyzed.

[NOTE]
====
Because all of the volume within a region is considered to be one
material, it is acceptable for primitives within a region to "overlap"
without error (e.g., spheres rounding cylinder ends). However, it is
good modeling practice to minimize this wherever practical to simplify
Boolean logic and keep primitives as compact as possible.
====

Shotlining is the principal method of interrogation in BRL-CAD.  Rays
are fired through geometry to report information about material
properties, thickness, orientation, etc., of objects encountered along
each ray's path (see Figure 18).

.Shotline through a tank.
image::tutorial_series_volIII_fig18.png[]

There are several ways to evaluate BRL-CAD geometry.  These include
(1) rendering the image using rt, (2) checking for overlaps using
rtcheck (or the lesser-known/used glint or MGED's overlap tool), and
(3) checking for faulty material composition (e.g., densities) using
rtweight.

Generally, as soon as a region is completed, it is good practice to
raytrace it using rt.  This allows the user to visually verify that
all Boolean logic is correct and that the geometry has no obvious
problems.  If there is anything questionable, it can then be examined
more closely with a raytrace that highlights that particular area.
Note that rendering is also a good way to compare geometry with
drawings, sketches, photographs, or images from other CAD systems.

As subcomponents are organized into assemblies and the complexity of
the geometry increases, it is then a good practice to use rtcheck (or
glint or the overlap tool) to help find any errors in the geometry and
isolate any problems.

The rtcheck feature is a program run from the MGED command line or
shell command line that fires a grid of rays through a list of objects
in order to check for overlapping geometry.  It reports a total count
of the overlaps and a list of overlap pairs, a listing of the paths to
the regions, the number of overlaps between each pair, and the maximum
depth in millimeters.  This is followed by a summary of the total
number of overlaps, the number of unique overlapping region pairs, and
a listing of all overlapping regions.

When run from within MGED, overlaps are displayed in the graphics
display as yellow lines (see Figure 19). These yellow lines are
created as temporary database objects and are stored in a combination
called OVERLAPSffff00 ("ffff00" is hexadecimal notation for yellow
[255 255 0]). Note that these temporary objects cannot be edited or
saved and last only as long as they are not erased from the MGED
display or are not overwritten by another set of overlaps.

After these lines have been created in the display, the user may use
them as a visual reference to analyze the overlaps.  A good practice
is to erase geometry (e.g., the top-level item) and draw smaller
subcomponents (perhaps just a few of the overlapping regions) to see
more clearly where and what the problems are.  When doing this, note
that the zap (Z) and blast (B) commands should not be used until the
evaluator is finished with the yellow lines as a visual reference.
The user should also keep in mind that the rays are difficult to see
from the azimuth/elevation orientation from which they were shot.  To
see them clearly, one should change the azimuth/elevation to another
orientation.

To get the output shown in Figure 20, the "all" assembly was displayed
in the graphics window and "rtcheck" was typed in the command window.

This command could also be run from outside of MGED.  The command
"rtcheck" is typed at a shell prompt, followed by the file name and
the list of objects to be evaluated (in this case, "all"). Note that
when running rtcheck from outside MGED, the default parameters include
a top view and a grid size of 512 × 512 cells (which is the default
size for all rt operations). For more details, see the on-line man
page on rt.

.Example of overlaps in the graphics window.
image::tutorial_series_volIII_fig19.png[]

[NOTE]
====
When first checking larger assemblies, it is wise to use a relatively
low-resolution rtcheck grid size--say, 128 × 128 pixels.  Often, there
are simple errors that produce large numbers of overlaps, and
reporting them all takes a long time.  Starting with low resolution,
however, allows the user to quickly find and eliminate gross errors
and proceed to the insidious small overlaps using a tighter grid and
more specific view parameters.
====

.Example of an overlap report in the command window.
image::tutorial_series_volIII_fig20.png[]

Another tool that can be useful for evaluating geometry, especially
target descriptions, is rtweight.  During or after model development,
material codes and effective percentages can be assigned to the
appropriate regions/ combinations based on the known materials and
weights of actual components, subsystems, and systems.  The rtweight
feature can then be used to calculate volume and material densities
and provide the overall weight of the model.  This information can, in
turn, be compared with the weight of the actual object to see if the
two match.  If they do not, chances are that there is a problem in the
model's material property assignments or construction (e.g., a hollow
component was modeled as solid). For a list of standard material codes
and air codes and their associated densities, see Robertson et al.
(1996) and Winner et al.  (2002).

In addition, the following are some general tips regarding the
evaluation of geometry in BRL-CAD:

* _Evaluate early and often:_ As mentioned previously, evaluations
  should be performed both on individual objects as they are built and
  on sections of the model as they are assembled. In general, problems
  identified early are more easily isolated and fixed than if "buried"
  in a host of other problems. Early and continuous evaluation also
  reduces the amount of evaluation that needs to be done at
  the end. Final evaluation at the end helps ensure that the
  individual pieces are all working together in the model.
* _Evaluate at low resolution before high resolution:_ Especially in
  large and complex models, running rtcheck at high resolution can be
  computation- and time-intensive. Therefore, it is recommended that
  the modeler initially set a lower number of rays to be fired, fix
  any significant overlaps, and then increase the number of rays
  and/or zoom in on particular areas as fewer overlaps are found.
* _Use multiple views:_ Because rtcheck finds overlaps by firing
  individual rays at geometry, it can miss overlaps that occur between
  rays (e.g., when viewing a face edge-on or with low
  obliquity). Therefore, to ensure the highest evaluation accuracy
  possible, it is a good idea to use several of BRL-CAD's standard
  views (e.g., top; az 35, el 25; etc.) as well as at least one
  arbitrary or randomly selected view (e.g., az 72, el 23).
* _Set the proper eye point:_ It is also possible for a user to miss
  detecting overlaps when the eye point is set in the middle or front
  of an object (e.g., when Z clipping is turned on). This does not
  mean that rtcheck is not catching them; it just means that they are
  not being displayed. So, before an evaluation is run, it is
  recommended that Z clipping be turned off and the eye point be
  sufficiently offset from the geometry so that the rays intersect the
  entire breadth of geometry or portion of geometry the modeler wants
  to evaluate and display.
* _Chunk big problems into smaller problems:_ Experienced modelers in
  BRL-CAD know that "killing" overlaps is simply a part of the
  modeling process. However, dealing with large amounts of overlaps
  can be overwhelming, especially to a new modeler or a modeler who
  has carefully built each piece and expects rtcheck to find few, if
  any, problems. Fortunately, in many cases, what appears to be
  extensive overlapping might just be one section of geometry (e.g., a
  wall of buttons and switches) that is slightly out of position, and
  a simple translation or rotation can simultaneously fix many
  problems. In other cases, overlaps are the result of simple
  miscalculations (e.g., a 2-in vs. a 1.5-in radius) that are not
  likely to be noticed until positioned with surrounding
  geometry. Whatever the case, the best approach to extensive overlaps
  is not to try to fix them all at once but to divide the problem into
  smaller problems, concentrate on individual pieces, and use the
  display to help identify and fix errors. For example, rather than
  starting with "all," start with, say, "engine," and then add
  "chassis." One can then continue this process and work up to
  evaluating the entire model.
