= Modeling Rook
:sectnums:
:experimental:

image::20-rook.jpg[]

Before you start modeling this piece, create a new database named
[path]`rook.g`. Create this new database as we did in the previous
case.

Type in the _Command Window_:

`[in]#opendb rook.g#` kbd:[ENTER]

****
If you didn’t open the MGED _Command Window_ again and used the above
command in the already opened window, you will see that the raytraced
image didn’t disappear. So, in order to get the blue screen back for
making other shapes, go to *Modes* from the menu bar and uncheck the
*Framebuffer Active* option by clicking on it.
****

Now, you are ready to model the rook. Since you are already familiar
with the [cmd]`in` command, therefore you will be using the shorthand
method of this command for making shapes.


== Making the base and body

Making the base is the same as we did in pawn. Type the following in
the MGED command window:

`[in]#in base.rcc rcc 0 0 0 0 0 0.8 2.25#` kbd:[ENTER]

This command will make a cylinder at vertex `0 0 0` with height `0 0
0.8` and radius `2.25`.

As we did in pawn, we will create the body using two shapes: *rcc* and
*trc*. To create the body, type:

`[in]#in body.trc trc 0 0 0.8 0 0 3 2.25 1.1#` kbd:[ENTER]

This command creates a trc at vertex `0 0 0.8` with height `0 0 1.5`,
radius of the base `2.25` and radius of top `1.1`. Now, to create the
curve, type:

`[in]#in curve.tor tor 0 0 3 0 0 1 3.6 2.6#` kbd:[ENTER]

In pawn, we had the vertex at a distance greater than the height of
*trc* because we wanted the curve to start right when the body starts
but in this case we want to have a straight portion before the curve
part. So, we have the vertex at `0 0 3`. The normal vector is `0 0 1`
to make our shape perpendicular to **z**-axis. Radius 1 is `3.6` and
Radius 2 is `2.6`.

You will get something like this (after zooming out by clicking the
left mouse button, to zoom in click the right mouse button):

image::21-rook-azel-view.jpg[]

In *Front* view:

image::22-rook-front-view.jpg[]

== Constructing the hollow cylinder for the head

Now comes the tricky part; we need to model the head. To understand it
completely, type [cmd]`Z` to clear the _Graphic Window_ temporarily.
Make sure your _Command Window_ is active while you do so.

****
One of the common mistakes we make as a beginner is that we forget to
make the _Command Window_ active and end up typing on the _Graphics
Window_. For those who have typed kbd:[Z] but the design started
rotating, you need not worry. Go to the *View* option on the Menu bar
and click on the last option *Zero* . Now to get back your design in
the original orientation, go to *View* option once again and click on
the view you were previously in. By default, the view is
*az35,el25* . Click on this option and you are ready to move further.
****

To make a cylinder for neck:

`[in]#in neck.rcc rcc 0 0 3.8 0 0 1 1.75#` kbd:[ENTER]

The value of vertex `0 0 3.8` came after adding the height of the
base and the body. I hope you are familiar with how we use the value
of the vertex.

For the head, we have to make a hollow cylinder first, which comes
after subtracting a cylinder from another cylinder with a
comparatively larger radius. Therefore, the vertex and height of both
the inner and outer cylinders should be the same. The radius of the
inner cylinder depends on the thickness of the required hollow
cylinder.

To construct the outer cylinder type:

`[in]#in outer.rcc rcc 0 0 4.8 0 0 0.6 1.75#` kbd:[ENTER]

To make the inner cylinder with the same vertex and height, type:

`[in]#in inner.rcc rcc 0 0 4.8 0 0 0.6 1.25#` kbd:[ENTER]

Your graphics window will look like:

image::23-rook-neck.jpg[]

== The first cuboid for the rook head

Generally, when you see a rook piece its head seems as in a hollow
cylinder is cut in pieces. To replicate that, we will make two cuboids
with length equal to or greater than the radius of the outer cylinder,
and height equal to the height of either one of the cylinders (both
inner and outer cylinders have the same height). Then you will
subtract these cuboids from the hollow cylinder. Now you will make two
cuboids that can be placed perpendicular to each other like an X mark
(a cross). For that, we will make *rpp* (Rectangular Parallelopiped).

To make the first one, type:

`[in]#in cross1.rpp rpp#` kbd:[ENTER]

Then MGED will ask for `XMIN`, `XMAX`, `YMIN`, `YMAX`, `ZMIN`, `ZMAX`
values. Type:

`[in]#-1.75 1.75 -0.5 0.5 4.8 5.4#` kbd:[ENTER]

To check the coordinate system, press kbd:[m] making sure the Graphics
window is active. You won’t see the coordinate lines because you are a
little above the origin. So, left-click on the graphics window to
zoom out. You will see that the **Z**-axis is along the diameter.
Therefore the `XMIN` should be `-1.75` (radius of the outer cylinder)
and `XMAX` should be `1.75`. The breadth is along the
**Y**-axis. Therefore, `-0.5` for `YMIN` and `0.5` for `YMAX`. The
height is along the **Z**-axis. Since the cuboid must start from the
base of the outer cylinder, therefore `ZMIN` is `4.8` and `ZMAX` is
`5.4` i.e., `ZMIN` plus height of outer cylinder (`0.6`).

image::24-rook-neck-cuboid.jpg[]

== Constructing a cuboid perpendicular to the first

Since you need another cuboid perpendicular to the first one, we use
the clone command as follows:

`[in]#clone -r 0 0 90 cross1.rpp#` kbd:[ENTER]

You are not yet familiar with the clone command which will be
explained in detail in the _Modeling Chessboard_ section.

Now, MGED will respond with

....
cross101.rpp {cross101.rpp)
....

This means we have both shapes for the cross. To view the other shape,
type:

`[in]#draw cross101.rpp#` kbd:[ENTER]

You can look at the head from different views by changing it from the
*View* Menu. Don’t get discouraged if you only see the head, the other
shapes are still right there but since we cleared the Graphics Window
using [cmd]`Z` they are not visible. To get the list of all the shapes
in your database, type in the command window:

`[in]#ls#` kbd:[ENTER]

You will get a list of all your shapes. To view all your shapes on the
Graphics Window, use the draw command. Draw all the remaining shapes
as follows:

`[in]#draw base.rcc body.trc curve.tor#` kbd:[ENTER]

Make sure to add spaces between the names. This command tells MGED to
draw the three specified shapes. In the *az35, el25* view, your design
will look like:

image::25-rook-azel-view.jpg[]

Before you raytrace, make the region of the rook:

`[in]#r rook.r u base.rcc u body.trc - curve.tor u neck.rcc u
outer.rcc - inner.rcc - cross1.rpp - cross101.rpp#` kbd:[ENTER]

Here we have subtracted `curve.tor` from `body.trc` to make the
curve. Subtracted `inner.rcc` from `outer.rcc` to make a hollow
cylinder and subtracted both cuboids `cross1.rpp` and `cross101.rpp`
from the outer hollow cylinder to give the finishing look. This
command makes a region named `rook.r`.


== Assigning material properties and raytracing

We will assign material properties as we did in the case of pawn. We
will use the shorthand method of the mater command. Type:

`[in]#mater rook.r plastic 0 0 0 0#` kbd:[ENTER]

Don’t forget to clear the graphics window and redraw the design using
Blast command as follows:

`[in]#B rook.r#` kbd:[ENTER]

Now, raytrace your design from the *File* menu. Change the background
color to white and select the *Overlay* option from *Framebuffer*
option in the Raytrace Menu Bar. For details check the instructions in
the previous model of the pawn. This is what we get after raytracing:

[cols="2*a",frame="none"]
|===
|
.az35, el25 view
image::26-rook-rt-azel-view.jpg[]
|
.Left view
image::27-rook-rt-left-view.jpg[]
|===
