= Compiling BRL-CAD with Eclipse

This tutorial shows how to set up and use Eclipse for compiling and
running BRL-CAD. BRL-CAD uses the CMake build system so it can
generate project files for a number of different development
environments. Here we show you how to create a project using the
Eclipse CDT4 generator.

Note that you can xref:Compiling_Eclipse_Manually.adoc[manually set up
an Eclipse project] for BRL-CAD, though there are several substantial
differences in the result.

At first we need to run CMake, and set `"Where is the source code`"
and "`Where to build the binaries`", but before that you have to be
sure that you have a _CMakeLists.txt_ file in the src directory . Your
project name should be different from your executable name and
different from your build folder name. Otherwise, Eclipse will NOT
pick up your executable as you build them. Our second work is that to
select the generator(the window _cmake-gui_ appears when you click
*Generate*), in our case -- Eclipse.

image::Compiling-Eclipse-1.PNG[]

For Eclipse, it is important that the build directory not to be a
subdirectory of the source directory due to a CMake limitation.

image::Compiling-Eclipse-2.PNG[]

In the next step you have to run Eclipse and import your new project.

_File/Import/General/ Existing Projects into Workspace_, Then just
click *Next*.

image::Compiling-Eclipse-3.PNG[]

Here you have to _Select root directory_, then check your projects,
keep "Copy projects into workspace" unchecked and *Finish* import.

image::Compiling-Eclipse-4.PNG[]

Next, we could build everything, but here we build pieces of the
project with the _benchmark_ and _mged_ targets. First, the BRL-CAD
benchmark: _Project/Make Target/Build..._, then select
target: _benchmark_ (location _bench_) and click *Build*

image::Compiling-Eclipse-5.PNG[]

Already built project:

image::Compiling-Eclipse-6.PNG[]

Now in analog of benchmark we will make it with _MGED_ and will run it.
Let's choose the target...

image::Compiling-Eclipse-7.PNG[]

And the built project:

image::Compiling-Eclipse-8.PNG[]

So let's run it and choose _mged_ from _binaries_ and then click *OK*.

image::Compiling-Eclipse-9.PNG[]

And finally we have started _MGED_:

image::Compiling-Eclipse-10.PNG[]
