= BRL-CAD for Newbies

By: Cameron Wolfe, wiki-brlcad, and others

BRL-CAD is a computer-aided design (CAD) software. It allows you to
design houses if you are an architect, design robotics part, or just
draw and model things you find in the world.

== Installation

In order to take advantage of this tool, you need to download and
install it on your computer.

image::BRL-CAD_homepage.PNG[]

image::Download.PNG[]

image::DownloadPage.PNG[]

image::DownloadIt.PNG[]

image::Install.PNG[]

Then what? It installed programs that don't run. They just say "The
procedure entry point GetSystemTimePreciseAsFileTime could not be
located in the dynamic link library KERNEL32.dll".

== Modeling

Now you can start modeling!

First, you need to search for mged in your computer's finder or on the
start menu and open the program. Once you have opened up MGED you see
that there is a terminal with a white background and a graphical window
with a black background.

image::Editor_Windows.png[]

Once you see that you can almost begin to model, but first you need to
create the file, or database that you are editing. In order to do that
you need to go to the graphical layout then click File>New

image::FileNew.PNG[]

and type in the file name and select the file that will be saved, then
click save. After that, you will be prompted if you want to make the
database, click yes and now you can start modeling! The first shape
that I made was a sphere, but there are many other types of primitive
shapes http://brlcad.org/gallery/diagrams/primitives. Type in the
console (make sphere1 sph) and then if you look in the graphical
window you will see a very crude sphere.

image::Sphere.PNG[]

Then if you want to make a cube type in (make cube1 arb8) and you will
have your very own cube.

image::Cube.PNG[]

Then you can type in the names of other shapes and you will see that
they make the object that you type in. After making part of your
model, you decide that you don't like the cube floating in space so
you want to delete it. All you have to do is type in erase cube1 then
it will erase itself from the graphical layout, but it is not
completely gone, if you want it back all you have to do is type in
draw cube1 and you will have your cube back. Only if you need the
shape gone for good and will never use it again for any reason in that
model, type in kill cube1 and it will be gone for good. After
finishing, type in rt in the console, and you will see your model
rendered and showing you how it would look with faces and lighting
instead of a wireframe.

image::RT.PNG[]

If you don't know how to do a certain thing then just type in
help. and all of the commands will be listed with a description of
what they do and how you use them.

image::TutHelp.PNG[]

Thank you for reading, and good modeling!

== Where to go from here

brlcad-7.26.4/doc/docbook/README:

....
...
This directory holds the DocBook (DB) documentation for BRL-CAD. Over
time, this should become the repository for all tutorials, man pages,
and other non-autogenerated, formatted documentation for BRL-CAD.
...
The current structure is as follows:
articles/ ...
books/ ...
lessons/ ...
resources/ ...
system/ ...
presentations/ ...
...
....

Unfortunately, as for now, only xref:Documentation.adoc[parts of this
Documentation] are available online and only in pdf. To acquire these
documents you will most likely need to install BRL-CAD, and if you are
lucky, they were installed as well during the installation. The
location may vary from System to System.
